Hi, welcome back. We're in the midst of
talking about Data Scientist. What do they do? How do you find them? What are the skills that you
need to gain to become one? So I love this little cartoon. I'm telling you the more information we
store up, it get cloudier and cloudier. This is what we're trying to address. We do not want things to get cloudier,
we wanna make them clearer, we wanna find insight in bad data. If you think about the traditional
approaches to data mining, machine learning, [INAUDIBLE],
whatever you'd like to call them. For years he used to be white-coat PhD,
scientist, typically statistician, or someone maybe with a PhD in
machine learning and computer science. The tools were very expensive. I remember in the olden days,
we had to code everything ourselves. If we wanted to do act official on your
network, you would probably call yourself. It would take a pretty
good amount of effort, and long period of time to accomplish that. We are debugging. Then we had open source
movement come along. People started sharing the codes today. It is very different than even 10,
15, 20 years ago. Today we have tools. They are really great. We have tools that can handle databases,
BI. We have tools that
are built into databases. We have a variety of open source tools
that can help us deal with large data that can help us find insight
into data performing analytics. Those are not expensive anymore. It's really the skills and the experience that you need to
gain to be able to do these jobs. As we mentioned early in our previous
lecture, there's many jobs available. For both the predictive analytics,
data scientists, statistical analysts, all the way to data scientists. But many people are lacking
in education and experience. It turns out that hands-on
experience is extremely valuable for these kinds of tools and techniques, and we'll see that more and
more as we get deeper into our classes. So who are the data scientists? What kinds of skills should they have? Really, data science is
a multi disciplinary effort. If you'd like to become a data scientist,
you not only really need to understand the statistics machine learning,
operation research often times, you really need to be able to gather
the data from these large data sources. So that immediately brings the big
data technologies into the picture. There might still be some databases and
data warehouses. But the data might be
residing on a Hadoop system. And you need to be able to
understand how to query and how to deploy jobs in order to
accomplish your analysis on there. Visualization is a very
large part of that. Many machine learning techniques
are based on a lot of statistics, so some basic statistic knowledge
is absolutely useful. But we have had people with
these kinds of skills, those geeky nerdy people
that sit in the back corner. Just kidding, I'm one of those, and
we have had them for many years. So why didn't we call
them data centers then? Why are we now talking about this now? What is the problem with having these
people at the core of a project, giving them data and
having them run off with it? Well, the problem is that many of
these extremely technical people might not have these other
skills we're talking about here. It is very important to
understand the domain. We need to know the domain. What does the data look like? Where is it coming from? How was it collected? We need to have good communication
skills to be able to communicate and understand the language
of the domain experts. We have to have this close
relationship with them where we can talk about the data. What are they trying to accomplish? Presentation skills
are extremely important. Most of the people that are technically
savvy do not like presenting. What a surprise. We need to be inquisitive,
we need to ask the right questions. I always tell my students
that I can probably make more models that I have the data. But what does that help us with? Nothing. We need to ask the right questions
to solve the right problems that will bring the business
value to the business. This is where the second
part of this cycle comes in. The problem solving techniques, being able
to analyze and understand the business. And really buy into the business strategy,
and really spend a time trying to understand that business and
understand how this algorithms, patterns, insights will be able to
bring that RRI to that business. This is what really makes it difficult
to find a data scientist, because it is really difficult to have all of
these skills together in the one person. What is happening in the industry
is enterprises are putting teams of the scientists where they can
speak the same or similar language and they have deeper expertises
in some of the areas. Maybe classic strategies and the others,
but they can put them together, and make them work like a team. So we say that data
science is a team sport. So what are the successful
characteristics? So we talked about some of
the skills you have to have. It really is that intellectual
curiosity and intuition. I always tell people that I think that
machine learning is the most creative part of computer science. And that's because you really have
to have a little bit of intuition, it lets you get to know the data. You have to be curious
enough to dig deeper. And often times as you are working
on a path to developing models, for example, for
conversion of the customers and predicting which customers
might buy a particular product. You might discover a whole another
world of additional insights, because your curiosity will
lead you to that point. Absolutely necessary is communication and
engagement with other groups, with other departments,
with other people on your team. You really need to
engaged in this iterative meetings and
interactions with business users, with business analysts,
with the leaders, with the managers, as well as with the IT people, and
people who are providing you the data. You really need to be able to present and
tell a story about this data. There's millions data points and
news graphs you can show people. But really, what is the story? How can you really guide someone, who
did not go through the entire process of data preparation, cleaning,
understanding modeling? To actually understand the entire process
of data science and be able to tell them that story so they understand what these
models and graphs are telling them into actual curiosity intuition will help you
do that, and make creative presentation, creative models,
that will add to the business value. Because you are doing it to understand
that business side of things which is why we have the business savvy is one of the important characteristics. So I got around and I don't need to
bring any company here as an a good or bad example, but as I was thinking about
this, there's a lot of jobs out there for data scientists. And I went and found this one
from awhile ago actually and i wanted to just show what a typical,
although things are changing a little bit. This probably is a typical
example of what a job posted for data scientist looks like. So this particular one was for
Amazon, and it was for the shopper marketing insight team. And it's really interesting to see, because you can really pinpoint all of
those characteristics we have just talked about from this particular
job description. So it is for learning more about customer inside the
targeted recommendations and advertising. They want someone who can really
understand that piece of the business. So here you are now, I'm a data scientist. I need to understand advertising. I've never done advertising,
I don't know how marketing works. I need to talk to the domain expert, then
really understand from the marketing team. What do they do? How does the process work? What does it look like? And then, they're looking for data
scientists who, not only understand that, but can actually type. You can actually write some equations,
write some coding, be able to retrieve, manipulate,
and analyze the data. Sometimes we joke about they're open for
God, but really it is a list of these characteristics
that we have just talked about. So just being someone who
understands machine learning, or just being someone who just
understands marketing. It's not enough to fill in
a job of a data scientist. You really need the mix of these
different disciplines, and this is why we say data science
is a multidisciplinary area. Another cute little cartoon. If you're a data scientist,
don't drop any data. Most of the time you will be working
on some data that is proprietary for your organization, and
should not be shared with others. All of the Hadoop and
other big data systems are very serious about ensuring the security and
privacy of the data. And that is a whole another
topic that we can spend a while, the time talking about privacy ethics and
non-technical sides of data science. They are just as important. So what is the modern data scientist look? Everyone in every profession
wants to become better every day. If you already consider
yourself a data scientist, what are the additional skills
you would like to learn? If you would like to
become a data scientist, here is kind of a nice set of
skills that people in the industry believe that with data scientist
on there title should have. So here is the set of mathematical and
statistical skills, programming databases,
understanding Hadoop, pick and hide. Maybe some mass produce concepts
pair all databases possibly. Understanding it may be the crowd, and where the competition is
actually gonna be executed. Then, you have this set of domain
knowledge and such skills. And honestly,
those are extremely important. If you don't have enough
curiosity about the data, you might not include all
the data that you could. And the more data include,
the better you represent that data, the better insight you're going to get. It is that hacker mindset that people talk
about that you really need to constantly keep thinking about how to
solve this problem, and then be able to communicate and visualize
that problem and tell a story and translate these data driven insights
in the language that people who are not technical can understand and consume. Being a woman data scientist,
I had to find one with a woman. This one comes from FICO, and it really
isn't telling us a whole lot of more about the story, but it is just a more
interesting way of presenting it. A degree in geek. Whatever that means,
you need to be mathlete. So you need to understand the math and
run with it. There's a lot of interesting things
that you can do as you're becoming data scientist, and
be able to have some fun and creativity. At the end of the day, really, [SOUND]
this is what a data scientist looks like. Just kidding. We'll see you next time.