In the previous lecture, we have talked
a little bit more about how is big data fueling the buzz and excitement about
what the data scientists are doing. What is the discipline of data science? And how this has becoming
the hot new gig in tech. So, we know there's a shortage
of talent necessary to fill the organizations,
in order to deal with all of the big data. According to the McKinsey's report,
by 2018 there will be a shortage of 140 to 190,000 people and
about 1.5 million managers. No matter how many times I talk about this
it never really ceases to amaze me that there is that many more managers
than actual people doing work? Anyhow, there is a good reason for that. Obviously, there is projects where numerous projects that might have to
deal with the analytics or big data but they're not necessarily employing a lot
of data scientists for that matter. However, those numbers are pretty large. Look at what Fortune Magazine has said. Even with the unemployment
rate this large, there's still a cool nerdy job that
people are working to fill in. So, the data science
jobs are growing rapidly. There is just this large gap and look how quickly these job
searches on Indeed.com and LinkedIn.com, just two quick examples, how much these jobs are in demand? So, if you're here listening to these
lectures, you're doing an awesome job. You're getting there, you're on your
way to become a data scientist and maybe fill in some of these
positions in the next year or two. So what can we do to narrow this gap? How can we expand our education system? Come up with the curriculums
to fill in these spots. So, we really wanna understand
who were people that are or can become data scientist? Who are these mysterious data scientist? What do they do? What are the jobs? What are the skills? Where do you find them? How do you find them? If I am a business intelligence,
or a business analyst, am I well suited to
become a data scientist? There's a lot of questions that come out regarding how do you find
the data sentence, or maybe how do you train your internal
staff and employees who already have the domain expertise about your
business to maybe become data scientist. And so, there is a lot of
different expectations about who the data scientist is? What should they do? What is the career? What is a career path? So let's look into that. So the new cool kids on campus says that,
if your data is an enigma, then you need a lot of number crunchers
and you see that name, number crunchers, unlocking the secrets of the data very
often, but really what are the skills? So there is one of the little
tag clouds that really does indicated pretty well what
the data scientist skills are. Often times they're coming out of
academia with some kind of a degree. You need to be able to have the skills
to build predictive models. Machine learning, typically predictive
analytics, data mining, those kinds of key words come in making predictions,
being able to do some filtering. Social media data is very important. Sentiment analysis, text mining, be savvy. It's really an interesting crowd and
it kind of shows that, there's a lot of these skills,
MySQL, maybe Python, maybe R. Some different collaborative
techniques and things like that. So, what's really interesting is that,
unlike a lot of other disciplines, data science and big data are kind of
becoming rising part of our culture. Anywhere from Moneyball, a movie with Brad Pitt that most
of you have probably seen it. All the way from that to the big data books that have been
written for everyday people. They're not necessarily very technical. They're not going into a whole
lot of depth into mathematical equations and methods behind them. But they do tell you how these new
techniques and technologies will transform how we live, how we work, how we think,
what we buy, who lies, who pretends. There is excellent book about
the human face of big data. There is just unbelievable, really
great visualizations that can really and for more information about the data
and can really translate that message out. What is it doing? How can it help our humanity? Super Crunchers, Nate Silvers who is
the leading columnist in New York TImes, has a column talking about how you use
this data to do cool, interesting things. There is data for the public good. There's data that's helping us solve
crime cases and things like that. So this is all great. There's a lot of movies, there's a lot of
information, there's a book I mentioned that talks about companies who are data
driven and using analytics, being in the forefront and had that, from
the companies they're going the old way. Not really utilizing these techniques and
not making data driven decisions. So, it is not only part of our culture and
how we're starting to think and read and watch movies and
things we do and actions we take, but it is becoming a big
part of the enterprises too. In the old times we have CIOs, CEOs. We might have had analytics teams or
the IT departments. In the recent years we started having,
seeing titles like Chief Data Officer. And that's really great. But now,
they're not just Chief Data Officers. What you now see is Chief Data Scientists. Now even organizations are realizing
that this is a very important role in an organization and
deserves its own title. Data driven decisions for everything
are being deployed throughout large, medium and small enterprises. Making strategic, tactical,
operational decisions are all based on the big data and the insight
that we can gather from big data. This is why we need data scientists and this is what the data scientists
are gonna help us do.