Hi, welcome back. So we have talked about
the shortage of data scientists, what kinds of skills you would
need to learn to become one. And professional community at large
is interested in how they can train more people, how we can become better
in analyzing all the data that we have. And so what happened a couple of years
ago, there was a couple of people from this O'Reilly Strata Survey, and
they called it Analyzing the Analyzers. And what they did was they
took a bunch of people, asked them to take a survey, and
they took an interesting approach. They were not interested
in years of experience, academic degrees, favorite tools. They did not care about verticles of
the industries or titles or pay scales or where they sit in the org chart. They really just wanted to
understand the skills they had. And so they asked a number
of different questions, and the responses tended to
either agree or disagree, and they would self-identify
into these different groups. And these groups were kind of interesting
because people were talking about oh, well I consider myself a scientist or
statistician or I'm a business person. And so what I really love about this
survey is that they actually used a machine learning algorithm, Clustering,
to take all of these correspondents and cluster them into four groups, which they
named Data Developer, Data Researcher, Data Creative, and
then Data Businessperson. So they developed 22 generic skills
that spanned across the range of useful things that data scientists
might do at their work. And it turns out that a few concrete
examples were provided with each skill kind of like if I'm a programmer, I like to do x and y. And, so, they offered all of
these skills to each one of the people who took the survey and
they tended to rank their skills similarly to their skill group,
which was an interesting thing, too. So it turns out that among
each of these correspondents, these four groups had
kind of a mix of skills. And you can see here that, for example,
you can see that Businesspersons are most likely to have a larger set of
skills in that area of business. However, many of them
knew about big data and machine learning and
had quite a lot of statistical background. Then if you look at the Data Creative,
they had quite a lot of statistics and
machine learning, big data skills, and they had some math, and operations,
OR stands for Operations Research. Then you can see that the Data Researcher
had a very heavy statistical skills, while the Data Developers had a lot
of different programming skills, which is to be expected. So, trying to define these
kinds of set of skills and the breadth of skills have shown us that,
although the data science as a discipline is still developing,
they're starting to be subgroup developed. You can think about that as
maybe similar to engineering. When the engineering first came
out there wasn't as many different types of engineering like we do now. Now we have a mechanical engineer and
electrical engineer and medical equipment engineer, and IT engineer, and
many different types of subgroups. It seems like the data science is starting
to create these subgroups, as well, and subdisciplines. And so if we look at these deep expertises that these four subgroups had, it seems
like there was at least one of these expertises that that group had
a lot of knowledge in-depth. This is what we call T-Shaped Skills. So if you think about these four different
groups and a number of different skills, typically, it tends that one
skill goes into the depth and all the other skills have some of them,
but maybe not as much. We have talked about data science
inherently being a collaborative team sport or collaborative area. And you can see that,
in this particular slide, the Data Businesperson had a pretty good
example of a t-shaped set of skills. They had a lot of skills in business, but
then had pretty heavy skill in math and statistics, and maybe some with a bit
more shallow skills in programming. If you look at the Data Creative area,
they kind of had the least of a T-shape. They were, what they call them,
jack-of-all-trades, which might not be a politically correct way, but this is
what they self-identified themselves as. But you can see that, for example, at the bottom right we
had Data Developers. It's to be expected that it had
pretty deep programming skills. They have a lot of big data,
some machine learning skills in math, but maybe a little less business
understanding and statistics. So now that we know what
skills data scientists have, there's a lot of questions about
what skills should I acquire. And it seems like they can be
set into three major groups. Data Manipulation at scale
because we now have large data. And whether that's parallel and
distributed databases, parallel querying, in-database analytics, in-memory
analytics, Hadoop, these are types of new technologies that the data scientist
needs to learn or keep up with. Then we have Analytics, Predictive
Analytics, Graph Analytics, Text mining, these are all analytical sides of
things that you would need to acquire. And if you're taking this
Coursera specialization, we will certainly cover those. And then you have to have these additional
skills that allow you to present, to communicate, and visualize the data.